foure his
11
Colchester July 23 1763
soll I. fort.
28/8/58
Mr Dear Dan;
I received your letter, acknowledge that
you were very good, & generous, & so forth to write to me so soon,
Your companion in the machine is indeed an excellent man:
the Lander-hastening part of his character is rather common; but
the other, is rare & curious. He might be said, I think, to play
a good stick; - or a bad stick, of you please; for the pun will be
the same, & it will, I suppose, be nearer the truth into the
bargain. I think there would have been some humour in taking
his cane from him, while he was amusing himself, & laying it
across his back a little, & giving it him again with a Sir! I
"beg I may'nt interrupt you." With a musical stick, one might
be said to bear a man to some tune.
I like the humour of your
woiding Dr. Wm. because you did not know what to say to him.
when you fall in his way next, & are at a loss for other matter
of conversation, give my service to him, & tell him I hope he
received his Mass safe: I wrote to him indeed about it, &
never received any answer; but you need not say anything
of that sort to him, lest he should make me amends by writing to
me now. Moreover - tell him I shou'd take it as a great
favour, if He wocid let me have a copy of Pergolesis Saloe
Regina; & if He would employ whom he pleases to transcribe it
at Bristol immediately; that you may bring it away with you.
& tell him you will pay the transcriber; which I suppose you
will be able without inconvenience, to do, & I will repay your
honour. The thing, I believe, is not long, & may soon be copied
If this conousation is not enough you may proceed to ask
hian (from me, & not as from yourself, be sure!) whether
He has yet got Somelli’s Passion from Italy; & that I
would give the world for a copy of it. That is a hint you
know. If you chuse to moon farther, by talking with a
grave face of things you know nothing of, & in the language
of us connoisseurs, - you may tell him that I have lately
met with the first Act of that Oratorio (last-mentioned) &
that it is exquisite... Ye - There - I think you will
have no occasion to think the Doctor again for this next
or rather, you may perhaps have more occasion
løsninghe
that will payable you more than any proposition in Euclid. However,
for your case & comfort remember, that the two first articles are
all that I insist on your saying. As to the rest, if it be too hard
for you to get by heart, & if you think you shall not be able to go
through with it without much blundeing, & boggling, & slip slopping
of words, & at last, pulling out your letter, & morning with it in
the middle of the pump room, - you may let it sleep, without much
damage.
your hypothesis about Momeries is plausible. Now I
talk of hypothesis, - pray have you any philosophical books with
what do you read? or do you, like other Gentle
in the place, devote your time entirely to morning:
—ay don't you think that the man in the moon must moon
inadinately, if one cou’d see him? - When you have an Air-pump
I shall thank my stars that I am not one of the kitchen of
your neighbourhood! - alas! how many poore, innocent dumb creatures
will have their breath sucked out of their bodies, & dye in vacuo-
to satisfie your rage of experiment." - Let me hear soon; if tell me
what the Doctor says. All are well at home when I heard last
Pray remember me to Mrs Fitz, for she is a favourite of our. Do
you him the loaf as you did last year? - what good company have
Summe Dear Dan
over in the house?
yrs. off
til
