ear
I received your letter, & acknowledge that
You were very good, & generous, & so forth, to write to me so soon
Your companion in the machine is indeed an excellent man:
the Larder hastening part of his character is either common but
the other, is rare & curious. He might be said, I think, to play
a good stick; - or a bad stick, if you please; for the pun will be
the same, & it will, I suppose, be nearer the truth into the
borgan. I think there would have been some humour in taking
his cane from him, while he was amusing himself, playing it
across his back a little, & giving it him again, with a Sir! I
"beg I may'nt interrupt you." With a musical stick, one might
be said to bear a man to some tune.
I like the humour of your
according Dr. Wm. because you did not know what to say to him.
when you fall in his way next, & are at a loss for other matter
of conversation, give my service to him, & telehina I hope he
received his Mass safe: I wrote to him indeed about it, &
never received any answer; but you need not say anything
of that sat to him, lest he should make me amends by writing
one now. Moreover – tell him I shou’d take it as a great
favour, if He woud let me have a copy of Pergolesis Saloe
Regina; & if the world employ whom he pleases to transcribe it
at Bristol, immediately; that you may bring it away with you.
& tele him you will pay the transcriber; which I suppose you
will be able without inconvenience to do, y I will repay your
honocor. The thing, I believe, is not long, & may soon be copied.
If this conversation is not enough, you may proceed to ask
him (from me, not as from yourself, be sure!) whether
He has yet got Somelli’s Passion from Italy; & that I
would give the world for a copy of it. That is a hint you
know. If you chuse to moon farther, by telking with
grave face of things you know nothing of, & in the language
of us connoisseurs, - you may tell him that I have lately
met with the first Act of that Oratorie (last-mentioned) &
that it is requisite!!! &e. There I think you will
have no occasion to think the Doctor again for this next
the, or rather, you may perhaps have more occasion
ever to think him; for I think I have given you a lesson
than any proposition in Ecclid. However,
that will pay
for your case & comfort, remember, that the two first articles are
all that I insist on your saying. As to the rest, if it be too hard
for you to get by heart, & if you think you shall not be able to go
th it without much blunduing, & boggling, & slip slopping
words, & et last, pulling out your letter, & morning with it in
the middle of the pump room, - you may let it sleep, without much
your hypothesis about Momeries is plausible. Now
talk of hypothesis, - pray have you any philosophical books with
what do you read? or do you, like other Gentle
in the place, devote your time entirely to morning?
ag don’t you think that the man in the moon must mo-
inordinately, if one cou’d see him? - When you have on As
pum
I shall thank my stars that I am not one of the Kittens of
your neighbourhood! - alas! how many poore, innocent dumb creatures
will have their breath sucked out of them bodies, & dye in racus
to satisfie your rage of experiment. - Let me hear
Vteteme
what the Doctor says. All were well as
when I heard
for
Pray remember me to Mrs. Fit
is a favourite of our. D
you him the loaf as you did last year?
at good compaing him
Jumain
you in the house?
Dan
prs effectivat
