Dear Dan,
I received your letter, & acknowledge
that
you were very good, & generous, & so forth to write to me so soon.
Your companion in the machine is indeed an excellent man:
the Lander-hastening part of his character is rather common; but
the other, is rare ye curious. He might be said, I think, to play
a good stick; or a bad stick, if you please; for the pun will be
the same, & it will, I suppose, be nearer the truth into the
bargain. I think there would have been some humour in taking
his cane from him, while he was amusing himself, playing it
across his back a little, & giving it him again, with a Sir! S.
"beg I may'nt interrupt you." With a musical stick, one might
be said to bear a man to some tune.
I like the humour of your
according Dr. Wm. because you did not know what to say to him.
when you fall in his way next, & are at a loss for other matter
of conversation, give my service to him, & tele hina I hope he
received his Mass safe: I wrote to him indeed about it, &
never received any answer; but you need not say anything
of that sort to him, lest he shou'd make me amends by writing to
me now. moreover - tell him I shou'd take it as a great
favour, if He wou'd let me have a copy of Pergolesis Salve
Regina; & if He would employ whom he pleases to transcribe it
at Bristol immediately; that you may bring it away with you:
& tele him you will pay the transcriber; which I suppose you
will be able without inconvenience, to do, y I will repay your
honoser. The thing, I believe, is not long, & may soon be copied.
If this conversation is not enough you may proceed to ask
him (from me, & not as from yourself, be sure!) whether
He has yet got Somelli’s Passion from Italy; & that I
would give the world for a copy of it. That is a hint you
know. If you chuse to moon farther, by talking with a
grave face of things you know nothing of, & in the language
of us connoisseurs, - you may tell him that I have lately
met with the first Act of that Oratorio (last-mention'd
that it is exquisite... Ve - There - I think you will
have no occasion to think the Doctor again for this next
sattright, or rather, you may perhaps have more occasion
than ever to think him; for I think I have given you a lesson
that will payable you more than my proposition in Euclid. However,
for your case & comfort, remember, that the two first articles are
all that I insist on your saying. As to the rest, if it be too hard
for you to get by heart, & if you think you shall not be able to go
through with it without much blundering, & boggling, & slip slopping
of words, & at last, pulling out your letter, & morning with it in
the middle of the pump room, - you may let it sleep, without much
your hypothesis about Mooneries is plausible. Now I
damage.
Felk of hypothesis, - pray have you any philosophical books with
what do you read? or do you, like other Gentle
in the place, devote your time entirely to morning?
-ay don't you think that the man in the moon must moon
inordinately, if one cou'd see him? - When you have an Air-pump.
I shall thank my stars that I am not one of the Kittons of
your neighbourhood: - alas! how many poore, in concentr dumb creature.
will have their breath sucked out of their bodies, & dye in vacuo,
to satisfie your rage of experiment." - Let me hear soon; & tell me
what the Doctor says. All are well at home when I heard last
Bray remember me to Mrs Fitz, for she is a favourite of one. Do
you him the loaf as you did last year? - What good company have
I remain Dear Dan
you in the house?
yrs effecturately.
