   Colchester, July 23, 1763
   Dear Dan, I received your letter, & acknowledge that you were
very good & generous, & so forth, to write to me so soon .. I
like the humour of your avoiding Dr. Woodward because you did
not know what to say to him. When you fall in his way next, &
are at a loss for other matter of conversation, give my service
to him, & tell him I hope he received his Mass safe: I wrote to
him indeed about it, & never received any answer; but you need
not say any thing of that sort to him, lest he shou'd make me
amends by writing to me now. Moreover - tell him I shou'd take
it as a great favour, if He wou'd let me have a copy of
Pergolesi's Salve Regina; & if He wou'd employ whom he
pleases to transcribe it at Bristol immediately; that you may
bring it away with you: & tell him you will pay the transcriber;
which I suppose you will be able to do, & I will repay your
honour. The thing, I believe, is not long, & may soon be copied.
If this conversation is not enough, you may proceed to ask him
(from me, not as from yourself, be sure!) whether he has yet
Jomelli's Passion from Italy; & that I wou'd give the world
for a copy of it. That is a hint, you know. If you chuse to
moon further, by talking with a grave face of things you
know nothing of, & in
the language of us connoisseurs, you may tell him, that I have
lately met with first Act of that Oratorio (last-mention'd) &
that it is exquisite!!!! &c. There - I think you will have
no occasion to shirk the Doctor again for this next fortnight;
or rather, you may perhaps have more occasion than ever to shirk
him; for I think I have given you a lesson that will puzzle you
more than any proposition in Euclid. However, for your ease &
comfort, remember, that the two first articles are all that I
insist on your saying. As to the rest, if it be too hard for you
to get by heart, & if you think you shall not be able to go
through with it without much blundering, & boggling, &
slip-slopping of words, & at last pulling out your letter &
mooning with it in the middle of the pump room, you may let
it sleep without much damage.
   Your hypothesis about Mooneries is plausible. Now I talk
of hypotheses, pray have you any philosophical books with you? -
what do you read? - or do you, like other gentlemen in the
place, devote your time entirely to mooning? Pray, don't you
think that the man in the moon must moon inordinately, if one
cou'd see him? When you have an Air-pump, I shall thank my stars
that I am not one of the kittens in your neighbourhood! Alas!
how many poor, innocent dumb creatures will have their breath
sucked out of their bodies, & dye in vacuo, to satisfie
your rage of experiment!
   Let me hear soon; & tell me what the Doctor says. All were
well at home when I heard last. Pray remember me to Mrs. Fitz,
for She is a favourite of mine. Do you trim the loaf as you did
last year? - What good company have you in the house? - I
remain, Dear Dan, Yrs. affec., T.T.
