What shall I do a say?- they tell me you are angry,
very angry, with pauvre moi for not coming to the Corrime
moration. And then I have been silent & so long!
I am a poor unhappy sinner. Do with me whatever
sumeth good. There is my nose, pull it. Here is my
6 ---, - Rick it. Here are my two ears lug them, or
box them. They are the peccant part; they ought to have
led me up to xxx town, & did not. Well, but after you
have beat & kiched & cuffed, & caned & cudgelled me at
goue pleasure, - hear what I have to say for myself. I have
had a very intimate old friend with me some time, whose
name, I believe you may have heard a Mr. Elmsak. He talked of
going to the communication with me; but where the time
drew near, he flinched; he has the misfortune to have a
great aversion to London, & if he were to write a Tableau the
de Londres, the picture wt. not be a bit more amiable
than Mr Le Mercier's Tableau de Paris. Moreover tho' truly
fond of Music, he he has never fairly got within the
sphere of attention of this Communication business. He is not
particularly fond of the kind of Music. He is more open to
delicate, than O to great effects, in Music. He had much rather
he a single song by Pacchicrotte (whom he thoroughly
relished) than a Chorus by a band that would crowd
Salisbury plain. After some hesitation, he could nor bring
himself to go to London: but he left me at perfect liberty,
even arged me to go. But when I sate down to calculated
my pleasure, I really found that I could nor help preferring
home, & a quiet excursion to Hanrich &c with him to
a London journey, & all that there, without him. And so,
-tout naivement, I did what I liked best. - I must, moreover
confess that we with respect to myself, the attraction of
the Abbey, was somewhat weatherred by the choice of the
Music, which was not to my mind or my palate. Why
the same hackneyed things over + over & over again,
ad nausearn. – About all- what cou'd induce Bates to
hick out that heavy monotonous, insipid song," Pious
"Orgies".- nothing, to me, can be more tiresome.
Well, well. Commemonations are in a fair way, &
I shall be in good time for next year. And so lay
aside the terrors of your angry brown, & relax your
storm muscles into a smile. - Oh - but I went to
combridge with my friend E., & heard Mad. Mara
for the first time, at Manini's benefit. We went on purpose,
give us credit in qr. black book for that, however. The sung
to our sorrow, only two song; one, 'I know that my redeeming
-La bravura song of - I forget - but it was a wonderful
exhibition of power of voice, compass, distinct rapidity
& wuything that could be in such a song. Our expectation
were fully answered. But - tell it not near the back
-steirs - We wished the other song changed; yet she
sung it admirably; - but it was chosen ad populum, I suppon-
not to her own taste. In such a song, I confess, I shd prefer
Mrs. Bates. – Theard Salomon too, whom I had nor head before
I like him much better than Camer. Cramer is very good
mechanism. Salomon played as many hand thinks as the
lover of difficulty could wish; but with more appearance
of taste, I think, more tone, more glow, more symptoms
of feeling, that Cramer. With my eyes shut I could tell
that the fiddle was played on by a human creature.
- We have been at Ipswich too, & heard lessons upon the
P.F. a whole evening, in a comfortable way, by Miss
Marshall. She played three lessons, lately published, of
Ooziluc, with a fiddle accompanied, which I think
charming music. So are the 3 former, unaccompanied,
which she also played. Will you give me leave to
