What shall I do or say? they tell me you are angry, very
angry, with pauvre moi for not coming to the Commemoration.
And then - I have been silent so long! I am a poor unhappy
sinner. Do with me whatever seemeth good. Here is my nose, pull
it. Here is my b-, kick it. Here are my two ears, lug them, or
box them. They are the peccant part, they ought to have led me
up to town, & did not.
   Well, but after you have beat, & kicked, & cuffed, & caned, &
cudgelled me at your pleasure, hear what I have to say for
myself. I have had a very intimate old friend with me some time,
whose name, I believe, you may have heard - a Mr. Elmsall. He
talked of going to the commemoration with me; but when the time
drew near, he flinched; he has the misfortune to have a great
aversion to London, & if he were to write a Tableau de
Londres, the picture wd. not be a bit more amiable than M. de
Mercier's Tableau de Paris. Moreover, tho' truly fond of
Music, he has never fairly got within the sphere of attraction
of this Commemoration business. He is not particularly fond of
the kind of Music. He is more open to delicate, than to
great effects in Music. He had much rather hear a single song by
Pacchierotti (whom he thoroughly relished) than a chorus by a
band that wou'd croud Salisbury Plain. After some hesitation, he
cou'd not bring himself to go to London: but he left me at
perfect liberty & even urged me to go. But when I sate down to
calculate my pleasure, I really found that I cou'd not help
preferring home, & a quiet excursion to Harwich, &c., with him,
to a London journey & all that there, without him. And so,
tout naivement, I did what I liked best. I must, moreover,
confess that, even with respect to myself, the attraction of the
Abbey was somewhat weakened by the choice of the Music, which
was not to my mind or my palate. Why
the same hackneyed thing, over & over & over again, ad
nauseam? Above all, what cou'd induce Bates to pick out that
heavy, monotonous, insipid song, "Pious Orgies"? Nothing, to me,
can be more tiresome. Well, well - Commemorations are in a fair
way, & I shall be in good time for next year. And so lay aside
the terrors of your angry brow, & relax your stern muscles into
a smile.
   Oh - but I went to Cambridge with my friend E., & heard Mad.
Mara, for the first time, at Martini's benefit. We went on
purpose. Give us credit in yr. black book for that, however. She
sung, to our sorrow, only two songs; one, "I know that my
Redeemer", &c., & a bravura song of - I forget - but it was a
wonderful exhibition of power of voice, compass, distinct
rapidity, & everything that cou'd be in such a song. Our
expectations were fully answered. But - tell it not near the
back stairs - we wished the other song changed; yet she sung it
admirably; but it was chosen ad populum, I suppose, not to
her own taste. In such a song, I confess, I shd. prefer Mrs.
Bates. I heard Salomon too, whom I had not heard before. I like
him much better than Cramer. Cramer is very good at mechanism.
Salomon played as many hard tricks as the lover of difficulty
could wish; but with more appearance of taste, I think, more
tone, more glow, more symptoms of feeling than Cramer. With my
eyes shut I could tell that the fiddle was played on by a human
creature...
   We have been at Ipswich, too, & heard lessons upon the P.F. a
whole evening, in a comfortable way, by Miss Marshall. She
played three lessons, lately published, of Coziluc, with a
fiddle accompaniment, which I think charming music. So are the 3
former, unaccompanied, which she also played. Will you give me
leave to like Coziluc still better than Sterkel? Now do y now!
Is there not more substance, more composition, &, in slow
movements, more pathos in Coziluc? The adagios (with the
accompt.) are surely capital.
   Alas, in the confusion of removing books & papers, your last
letter is left at Colchr. But I remember the good news you tell
me about Capt. Phillips, for it gave me great pleasure. I hope
Mrs. P. is the better for her trip to the continent. And your
Old Bailey business: how did it go? I hope, at least, it is all
over; for I know how you must abhor the whole affair. Forgive my
truantism, my dear friend, & let me hear of you as if I had not
been a naughty boy. The Tab. de Paris entertains me, &
plagues me. I never so perpetually wanted the Dictionary! Rem.
me & Mrs. T. to Mrs. B. (how is She?), Miss B. (how is She?),
all the B.s - how are they? Yrs. ever, T.T.
