I gott remaund ge(?) I haue retainid yowr
letter of ye 14. of marche, and rest much con=
tented for yo uer good exptation and courag e
in all causes yt I haue pis dayes many wayes vid
measad(?) in, for as you haue hards(?) to yowr owld(?)
wonte, to escaque ye hard mislike yt ye
caus gaue by sond ry the go d notable of yowr
predent(?) care.
I gaue ane(x?) copy of yowr latin letter, & toke
yt mynde(?) to wole not only I wold in yowr case
also (vng??r) you wer to ye same parly(?)
be any expos af lyke qualite, to be at hevald(?)
tes matter will sowyn our caus & ye se(?)e(?)
wally(?) yow wrote to gaulle(?) ye opinion
ye Elders may be remitted to before to be
vsed in related, and not sent by ye par=
ties yowr blunt wt (?) in would hinder ye
best after, yow odsprynge may be reported,
and I hop e yow gaue somad(?) occorirence(?)
goes, but I remitt yt important to be knowne
and considered of yow
Oce(?) partly to reform yow wrote yowr latin letter
yo aleady (?). departed point for all yowr trimmes(?) &
perfect preseruaton(?) ye Elders may be so(?)
[illegible] [illegible, ~5 chars] poland & supplyed(?) to yowr [illegible]
all ye fall oppont(?) wperas(?) yow shall vnder=
stond yowrself for yow will no doubt appownt
some to supply for him when he goeth hence
which I think he will do ere this summer passe
In the meane tyme yow may do well to send
you letters without superscription, which may
be added here according to the party that
shall occupy the place, for the matter &
style may always serve indifferently for
any of that quality as you know
having understood that your said and best patron
hath conceyned somewhat hardly of f. p. for
not deliuering certeyn letters of his sent
two yeres agoe or thereabout to P. I can
do no lesse then testify unto you, what I know
thereof, which I wold wryte to your patron
him self, yf I were as well knowen vnto
him, as I was to his grandfather, to
and uncle
whom both I and my father were exceeding
bound for his creat favour & affection,
in which respect & dyvers others needles to relate
I haue ever greatly honored your patron, & cor
dially loved him.
The truth ys that the f. p. receiving the
foresayd letters, & considering the danger of
other
those tymes, & dyvers inconveniences concurring
consulted with some few confident frends ⁁ wheras my
self was one) whether it were more con¬
neinert to deliver the letters theyn selves, or
to suggest & represent the effect thereof, to
the party to whom they were written, and the
yow patrons name & by parti
from him
same to be donne in
cular commission, and it seeming to us
that the latter wold be the most secure
safe way for your patron, (in respect of some
examples we had before seene of impor
tant matters published by ⁁ negligence of such as
had the keeping of letters & papers of that
quality) we presumed so farre of your pa-
trons allowance, (pretending nothing on our
and
parts, but the hys satisfaction security, &
gods glory & service) that we resolved for
the contents
open the letters, and to represent ⁁ in his
name, which I assure you was donne effectually
and with as ample a relation of your patrons
great worth and merits, as he him self
could haue wished, though the party to whom
the same were suggested, was at that tyme so
those or any other of
and
exceedingly trouble ⁁ a lienated from hearing of our affayres
by the accidents which then hapned, to your patron
was well as to
him self dyvers others, as you know, that
thereof
the resolution ⁁ could not be prosecuted,
much lesse procured, & so the matter
to being, as fully and sufficiently intimated
as could be wished, was let fall perforce; and
one reason amongst others, which moved us at that
tyme rather to deliver the effect of the letters then
the letters theyn solices was the great length of
theym, whereby we assured our selves that the
party wold not read theyn, but remit theyn
to be related to him by others, who wold not by
perhaps do it so effectually, as we desired.
this
And ⁁ ys the truth of and yf you patron conceave
otherways he ys much deceased, & doth is great
wrong to y vs his servants here, & especially
to f. p. in whom I haue ever seene so much
love and affection towards him, & such ende
nour in all oportunityes to advance hys honour
need's
& reparation, that I must say he deserveth a farrs
better construction of his action herein, then as I
understand, you patron maketh for god ys our
witness I may boldly say it for my self as no
lesse then for the rest that delt in that matter
we had no other deynment or meaning in the
world, then xxx gods service with you patrons
better satisfaction, though it may be we presu
we thought
med to farre of the confidence that the reposed in
consequently of
vs, & this approbation of what we shuld think
most fit to be donne, the condicion of this place,
that tyme, & the matter it self being conside.
red; howsoever it ys, ys you patron take it not
per 3 do protest vnto por
well I may boldly say./
that I think, there was never matter better
meant on aur parts, nor more mistaken by
or any others
him, and to this effect I wold haue written vnto
him
him my self, yf the had ever knowen me, or
that I had thought he wold not haue taken
being vnacquaynted with him
it for presumption in me; and therfore I
have thought good to signify thus much
to you, & to remit it to you wisdome, to
nupart it to him, as farre as you shall
think convenient, which most humble and
affectionat offer of my service, and
so this being for no other at this tyme
take my leaue recommending you
to gods holly protection. from my
old residence, the 18 of May 1608.
you as my owne.
-
Swynnerton
.
If you ympart thys to your patron I
should be very glad to heare from you
how he resteth satisfyed
