<L FITZHER_001><Q A 1608 T TFITZHERBE>
<X THOMAS FITZHERBERT>
<P 4>
[} [\I. SWINNERTON (FITZHERBERT) TO CHAMBERLANE (BIRKHEAD), 18
MAY 1608.\] }]
Right Reverend Syr.
   I have receaved your letter of the 14 of March, and rest much
comforted to see your good resolution and courage in gods cause,
which I hope his devyne majesty will encrease in you, with good
successe to your endevours, to repayre the late wracks that his
cause hath susteyned by the weaknes of your predecessour.
   I have read the copy of your letter and lyke it singularly
well. only I wold wish you hereafter (whether you wryte to the
same party or any other of lyke quality) to be as breef as the
<P 5>
matter will geve you leave, and thys especially yf you wryte to
Paul, for other ways your letters may be remitted to others to
be read and related, and not read by the parties theym selves,
which wold hinder the good effectes that otherways may be
expected; and of thys we have so much experience here, that I
think yt important to be known and considered of you.
   The party to whom you wrote your latin letter ys alreddy
departed hence for all thys sommer, and therefore hereafter your
letters must be to others, especially to him, whose place he
supplyed (who is now here himself) or to some such as he shall
appoynt; whereof you shalbe advertised hereafter; for he will no
dout appoynt some to supply for him when he goeth hence which I
think he will do ere thys sommer passe. In the meane tyme you
may do well to send your letters without superscription, which
may be added here according to the party that shall occupy the
place; for the matter and style may always serve indifferently
for any of that quality as you know.
   having understood that your old and best patron hath
conceyved somewhat hardly of f.p. for not delivering certayn
letters of hys sent some yeres agoe or thereabout to P. I can do
no
<P 6>
lesse then testify unto you, what I know thereof which I wold
<P 7>
wryte to your patron him selfe, yf I were as well knowen unto
him, as I was to hys grandfather, to whom both I and my father
and uncle were exceedingly bound for hys great favour and
affection in which respect and dyvers others needles to relate I
have ever greatly honored your patron and cordially loved him.
   The truth ys that f.p. receaving the foresayd letters, and
considering the danger of those tymes, and dyvers other
inconveniences concurring consulted with some few confident
frendes (of whom my self was one) whether it were more
convenient to deliver the letters theym selves, or to suggest
and represent the effect thereof, to the party to whom they were
written, and the same to be done in your patrons name, and as by
particular commission from him, and it seeming to us that the
latter wold be the most secure and safe way for your patron (in
respect of some examples we had before seene of important
matters published by the negligence of such as had the keeping
of letters and papers of that quality) we presumed so farre of
your patrons allowance, (pretending nothing on our parts, but
his satisfaction and security and gods glory and service) that
we resolved to open the letters and to represent the contents in
hys name, which I assure you was done effectually and with as
ample a relation of your patrons great worth and merits, as he
him self could have wished, though the party to whom the same
was suggested, was at that tyme so exceedingly troubled and
alienated from hearing of those or any other of our affayres by
the accidents which then hapned, to your patron him self as well
as to dyvers others, as you know, that the resolution thereof
could not be prosecuted, and much lesse procured, and so the
matter being, as fully and sufficiently intimated as could be
wished, was let fall perforce; and one reason amongst others,
which moved us at that tyme rather to deliver the effect of the
letters then the letters theym selves was the great length of
theym, whereby we assured our selves that the party wold not
read theym, but remit theym to be related to him by others, who
wold not perhaps do it so effectually, as we desyred. And this
ys the truth and if your patron conceave other ways he ys much
deceaved, and doth great wrong to us hys servants here, and
especially to f.p. in whom I have ever seene so much love and
affection towards him, and such endevour in all oportunityes to
advance hys favour and reputation, that I must needs say he
deserveth a farre better construction of hys action herein, then
as I understand, your patron maketh.
<P 8>
for God ys our witnes (I may boldly say it for my self no leses
then for the rest that delt in that matter) we had no other
desynment or meaning in the world, then gods service with your
patrons better satisfaction, though it may be we presumed too
farre of the confidence we thought he reposed in us and
consequently of hys appreciation of what we should think most
fit to be donne, the condition of this place, that tyme and the
matter it self, being considered; howsoever it ys, yf your
patron take it not well, I may boldly say, and so protest unto
you that I think, that there was never matter better meant on
our parts, nor more mistaken by him or any other, and to thys
effect I wold have written unto him my self, yf he had once
knowen me, or that I had thought he wold have taken it for
presumption in me, being unacquaynted with him; and therefore I
have thought good to signify thus much to you, and to remit it
to your wisdom, to impart it to him, as farre as you shall think
convenient, with most humble and affectionat offer of my
service. and so thys being for no other at thys tyme I take my
leave recommending you to gods holly protection. from my old
residence the 18 of May 1608
   Yours as my owne
   T. Swinnerton.
   If you impart thys to your patron I should be very glad to
heare from you how he resteth satisfied.
[\ADDRESSED\] To Mr Chamberlane G.B.A.

